---
layout: post
title: "EMPSEB21"
date: 2015-09-13
---

Recently I get rather sentimental when travelling. When moving fast, everything close gets blurry and one focuses the distant. The (proverbial but rarely seen) green meadows and rolling hills, the sea and even mountains. Travelling, I suddenly sense Fernweh which I don't normally do. I am on a Virgin train speeding northwards. My journey goes to Edinburgh and later to Stirling, venue of this year's EMPSEB21, the European Meeting of PhD Students in Evolutionary Biology. EMPSEB is a scientific meeting that is both organised and attended by students (plus a number of invited academic plenary speakers). I will arrive one day early and will commit my self to the hospitality of a magnificent Luxembourgian bloke whom I met last year at EMPSEB20 and some of whose hobbies are moustache-growing and learning Russian.

...

Six days later, Sunday evening. It is raining and I am on the train back to London. Again, EMBSEB has been better than all my expectations. 92 student talks in two parallel sessions were complemented with seven plenaries and a number of posters. Similar to this year's ESEB in Lausanne, sexual conflict played a big roll. There was also a considerable number of evolutionary ecology talks. Surprisingly many referents used unicellular models. Besides the scientific conference programme there was time to get to know Scotland, to see Stirling's William Wallace Monument, stroll through Edinburgh's amazing Botanic gardens, and to go on a tour to Loch Lomond – the UK's largest lake. After the conference dinner at the Edinburgh Zoo, the Golden Horn of EMPSEB leadership was passed on to Sweden which shall be next year's conference venue. The the dinner evening ended – very appropriately – with Ceilidh accompanied by a local band.
I head a great time and I met great people. Some from London, just down the road, others from the other side of the globe, and many from in between. Also, I found Scotland a really likeable place (no matter what weather) and I will surely come back.
The slides of my talk can be downloaded [here](../../../../../misc/BECHER_stirling_talk_public.pdf). The explaining poster is [here](../../../../../misc/Becher_ESEB_public.png).
